## Stock Prices Prediction from financial news articles using LSTM and XAI

Stock market investment can be a very tricky and tedious job, stock market prediction has been an object of studies for the past many decades and is a very difficult task because of its complexity, disordered information and dynamism. An aspired investor always wishes to make a conscious decision about buying or selling or holding stocks of a specific company to aim maximum profits. There are several technical indicators and sources of information which affect the stock prices, but due to the substantial amount of data present, it becomes difficult to predict the prices. However, with the advancement in technology, the opportunity to procure profit from the stock market is increased, which also helps experts to find out the most informative indicators to make a better prediction.

There is a famous hypothesis in finance called the Efficient Market Hypothesis[1] which tells us that prices of securities and assets cannot solely depend on obsolete information and market prices react to new information, for example, financial news articles, social media blogs, etc. Given the major rules of financial institutes and their information gathering convention we believe it is important to focus on financial news at news events. With the advancement in artificial intelligence information coming from both financial markets (in the form of time series) and textual data(in the form of news, blogs, tweets, etc.) can be employed to forecast stock prices.

Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)[2] has proved to be a powerful model for processing context information from textual data. LSTM[8] (Long Short-Term Memory) is considered as one of the most significant and useful RNN architectures. We are using LSTM for news sentiment classification employing simulating the interactions of words during the compositional process. LSTM incorporates a memory cell(unit of computation) that supersedes the traditional deep learning cells in the hidden layer of the model. The aim is to understand the semantics of data while maintaining high precision dynamically, the LSTM memory cells successfully relate memories and input remote in time.

In order to trust the behaviour of the model proposed, we also intend to make our model more explainable. XAI aims to create a collection of machine learning techniques that produce more explainable models. Using XAI techniques we wish to provide knowledge about the prediction made by the model, so that the user can make an educated decision while trading.
